Add selective download feature to Data Prepper sources section (#6247)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/common-use-cases/s3-logs.md

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-architecture.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture">{: .img-fluid}

> The data flow involving the components is as follows:

Reviewer: "The data flow involving the components" => "The component data flow"?

> The data flow involving the components is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The component data flow is as follows:
```

    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

If your S3 objects or SQS queues do not use KMS, you can remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.

### SQS dead-letter queue

> The two options for how to handle errors resulting from processing S3 objects are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following two options can be used to handle S3 object processing errors:
```

If you have multiple pipelines, you must create multiple SQS queues for each pipeline, even if both pipelines use the same S3 bucket.

## Amazon SNS fanout pattern

To meet the scale of logs produced by S3, some users require multiple SQS queues for their logs. You can use [Amazon Simple Notification Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/welcome.html) (Amazon SNS) to route event notifications from S3 to an SQS [fanout pattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-common-scenarios.html). Using SNS, all S3 event notifications are sent directly to a single SNS topic, where you can subscribe to multiple SQS queues.

To make sure that Data Prepper can directly parse the event from the SNS topic, configure [raw message delivery](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-large-payload-raw-message-delivery.html) on the SNS to SQS subscription. Setting this option does not affect other SQS queues that are subscribed to that SNS topic.

> ## Selective download

Reviewer 2: I think the phrase "selective download" doesn't quite fit. We don't really call this downloading anyway.

The terminology from the S3 Select documentation discussing "filtering and retrieving data". I think we should use that terminology.

```suggestion
## Filtering and retrieving data using Amazon S3 Select
```

Reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html

> ## Selective download

Reviewer 2: We should probably refer readers to the S3 Select documentation somewhere in the section.

* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-select-sql-reference.html - This could be useful since the reader would need to know the S3 Select SQL expression language.

Author: @dlvenable Added the following note within the S3 Select section: 
```

Refer to user guides [Filtering and retrieving data using Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) and [SQL reference for Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-select-sql-reference.html) for comprehensive information about using Amazon S3 Select.
{: .note}
```

If a pipeline uses an S3 source, you can use SQL expressions to perform filtering and computations on the contents of S3 objects before ingesting them into the pipeline.

The `s3_select` option supports objects in the [Parquet File Format](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/). It also works with objects that are compressed with GZIP or BZIP2 (for CSV and JSON objects only) and supports columnar compression for the Parquet File Format using GZIP and Snappy.

> The following example pipeline downloads data in incoming S3 objects, encoded in the Parquet File Format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline retrieves all data S3 objects encoded in the Parquet File Format:
```

```json
pipeline:
  source:
    s3:
      s3_select:
        expression: "select * from s3object s"  
        input_serialization: parquet
      notification_type: "sqs"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following example pipeline downloads only the first 10,000 records in the objects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline retrieves only the first 10,000 records in the objects:
```

```json
pipeline:
  source:
    s3:
      s3_select:
        expression: "select * from s3object s LIMIT 10000"
        input_serialization: parquet
      notification_type: "sqs"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following example pipeline checks for the minimum and maximum values of `data_value` before ingesting events into the pipeline:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline retrieves records from S3 objects that have a `data_value` in the given range of 200-500. 
```

         password: "admin"
         index: s3_logs
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Multiple Data Prepper pipelines

> It is recommended that you have one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. In addition, you can have multiple nodes in the same cluster reading from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional configuration with Data Prepper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you have one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. In addition, you can have multiple nodes in the same cluster reading from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional Data Prepper configuration.
```

If you have multiple pipelines, you must create multiple SQS queues for each pipeline, even if both pipelines use the same S3 bucket.

## Amazon SNS fanout pattern

To meet the scale of logs produced by S3, some users require multiple SQS queues for their logs. You can use [Amazon Simple Notification Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/welcome.html) (Amazon SNS) to route event notifications from S3 to an SQS [fanout pattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-common-scenarios.html). Using SNS, all S3 event notifications are sent directly to a single SNS topic, where you can subscribe to multiple SQS queues.

> To make sure that Data Prepper can directly parse the event from the SNS topic, configure [raw message delivery](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-large-payload-raw-message-delivery.html) on the SNS to SQS subscription. Setting this option does not affect other SQS queues that are subscribed to that SNS topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure that Data Prepper can directly parse the event from the SNS topic, configure [raw message delivery](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-large-payload-raw-message-delivery.html) on the SNS-to-SQS subscription. Applying this option does not affect other SQS queues subscribed to the SNS topic.
```

## Filtering and retrieving data using Amazon S3 Select

If a pipeline uses an S3 source, you can use SQL expressions to perform filtering and computations on the contents of S3 objects before ingesting them into the pipeline.

The `s3_select` option supports objects in the [Parquet File Format](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/). It also works with objects that are compressed with GZIP or BZIP2 (for CSV and JSON objects only) and supports columnar compression for the Parquet File Format using GZIP and Snappy.

> Refer to user guides [Filtering and retrieving data using Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) and [SQL reference for Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-select-sql-reference.html) for comprehensive information about using Amazon S3 Select.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Filtering and retrieving data using Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) and [SQL reference for Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-select-sql-reference.html) for comprehensive information about using Amazon S3 Select.
```

{: .note}

> The following example pipeline retrieves all data S3 objects encoded in the Parquet File Format:

Author: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline retrieves all data from S3 objects encoded in the Parquet File Format:
```

> The following example pipeline retrieves all data S3 objects encoded in the Parquet File Format:

Reviewer: Either "from" should follow "data", or "data" should be removed.

```json
pipeline:
  source:
    s3:
      s3_select:
        expression: "select * from s3object s"  
        input_serialization: parquet
      notification_type: "sqs"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The following example pipeline retrieves only the first 10,000 records in the objects:

```json
pipeline:
  source:
    s3:
      s3_select:
        expression: "select * from s3object s LIMIT 10000"
        input_serialization: parquet
      notification_type: "sqs"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following example pipeline retrieves records from S3 objects that have a `data_value` in the given range of 200--500. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline retrieves records from S3 objects that have a `data_value` in the given range of 200--500:
```
